A computer virus is a malware that, when executed, replicates by reproducing itself or infecting other programs by modifying them. Infecting computer programs can include as well, data files, or the boot sector of the hard drive. When this replication succeeds, the affected areas are then said to be "infected".The term computer virus was a misnomer until it was coined by Fred Cohen in 1985. Viruses often perform some type of harmful activity on infected hosts, such as acquisition of hard disk space or CPU time, accessing private information, corrupting data, displaying political or humorous messages on the user's screen, spamming their contacts, logging their keystrokes, or even rendering the computer useless. However, not all viruses carry a destructive payload or attempt to hide themselves—the defining characteristic of viruses is that they are self-replicating computer programs which install themselves without user consent.
Virus writers use social engineering and exploit detailed knowledge of security vulnerabilities to gain access to their hosts' computing resources. The vast majority of viruses target systems running Microsoft Windows,employing a variety of mechanisms to infect new hosts,and often using complex anti-detection/stealth strategies to evade antivirus software.Motives for creating viruses can include seeking profit, desire to send a political message, personal amusement, to demonstrate that a vulnerability exists in software, for sabotage and denial of service, or simply because they wish to explore artificial life and evolutionary algorithms.
Computer viruses currently cause billions of dollars' worth of economic damage each year, due to causing system failure, wasting computer resources, corrupting data, increasing maintenance costs, etc. In response, free, open-source antivirus tools have been developed, and an industry of antivirus software has cropped up, selling or freely distributing virus protection to users of various operating systems. Even though no currently existing antivirus software is able to uncover all computer viruses (especially new ones), computer security researchers are actively searching for new ways to enable antivirus solutions to more effectively detect emerging viruses, before they have already become widely distributed.
The Creeper virus was first detected on ARPANET, the forerunner of the Internet, in the early 1970s.Creeper was an experimental self-replicating program written by
Bob Thomas at BBN Technologies in 1971.Creeper used the ARPANET to infect DEC PDP-10 computers running the TENEX operating system. Creeper gained access via the ARPANET and copied itself to the remote
system where the message, “I'm the creeper, catch me if you can!" was displayed. The Reaper program was created to delete Creeper.In fiction, the 1973 Michael Crichton movie Westworld
made an early mention of the concept of a computer virus, being a central plot theme that causes androids to run amok. Alan Oppenheimer's character summarizes
the problem by stating that "...there’s a clear pattern here which suggests an analogy to an infectious disease process, spreading from one...area to the next.” To which the replies are stated: “Perhaps there are superficial similarities
to disease” and, “I must confess I find it difficult to believe in a disease of machinery.”(Crichton’s earlier work, the 1969 novel The Andromeda Strain and 1971 film were about a biological virus-like disease that threatened
the human race.) In 1982, a program called "Elk Cloner" was the first personal computer virus to appear “in the wild”—that is, outside the single computer or lab where it was created. Written in 1981 by Richard Skrenta while in the ninth
grade at Mount Lebanon High School near Pittsburgh, it attached itself to the Apple DOS 3.3 operating system and spread via floppy disk.  This virus, created as a
practical joke when Skrenta was still in high school, was injected in a game on a floppy disk. On its 50th use the Elk Cloner virus would be activated, infecting the personal
computer and displaying a short poem beginning “Elk Cloner: The program with a personality.” In 1984 Fred Cohen from the University of Southern California
wrote his paper “Computer Viruses – Theory and Experiments”.It was the first paper to explicitly call a self-reproducing program a “virus”, a term introduced
by Cohen’s mentor Leonard Adleman. In 1987, Fred Cohen published a demonstration that there is no algorithm that can perfectly detect all possible viruses. 
A series of murders occurred in the outskirts of Mumbai in August 1968. Pavement and hutment dwellers were bludgeoned to death while they slept. All the murders took place at night and were committed using a hard, blunt object. This was witnessed by Krithika who then released this information to the Mumbai police.
A similar series of murders had taken place some years earlier (1965–66) in the Eastern suburbs of Mumbai. In that year, as many as 19 people had been attacked, out of whom 9 victims had died. Additionally, one of the victims was a relative of Krithika. At the time a suspicious looking man found loitering in the area had been picked up by the police. His name was Raman Raghav, a homeless man, and he was already in police files, having spent 5 years in prison for robbery. He also raped his sister before he killed her with several stab wounds. However, as no hard evidence could be found against him (none of the survivors had seen this man) the police let him go.
When the killer struck again in 1968 the police launched a manhunt for him. Ramakant Kulkarni, then the Deputy Commissioner of Police CID (Crime) took over the investigation and spearheaded a massive combing operation in the city. This time the police managed to arrest him and make him confess.
He admitted that he had killed 23 people in 1966 along the GIP (Great Indian Peninsular Railway as the Central Railway (India) was then known) line and almost a dozen in 1968 in the suburbs. However, it is likely that he killed many more. It was his casual approach to killing that led the police to suspect that he did not remember the exact number of people he had killed.
During the time Raman Raghav was in operation, there was widespread public anxiety and panic in Mumbai. Inhabitants of slums and apartments dreaded sleeping out in the open or with open windows and balconies.
Fred Cohen’s theoretical compression virus was an example of a virus which was not malware, but was putatively benevolent. However, antivirus professionals do not accept the
concept of benevolent viruses, as any desired function can be implemented without involving a virus (automatic compression, for instance, is available under the Windows 
operating system at the choice of the user). Any virus will by definition make unauthorised changes to a computer, or intended. On page one of Dr Solomon’s Virus Encyclopaedia,
the undesirability of viruses, even those that do nothing but reproduce, is thoroughly explained.
