A computer virus is a malware that, when executed, replicates by reproducing itself or infecting other programs by modifying them. 
Infecting computer programs can include as well, data files, or the boot sector of the hard drive. 
When this replication succeeds, the affected areas are then said to be "infected".
The term computer virus was a misnomer until it was coined by Fred Cohen in 1985. 
Viruses often perform some type of harmful activity on infected hosts, such as acquisition of hard disk space or CPU time, accessing private information, corrupting data, displaying political or humorous messages on the user's screen, spamming their contacts, logging their keystrokes, or even rendering the computer useless. 
However, not all viruses carry a destructive payload or attempt to hide themselves—the defining characteristic of viruses is that they are self-replicating computer programs which install themselves without user consent.
Virus writers use social engineering and exploit detailed knowledge of security vulnerabilities to gain access to their hosts' computing resources. 
The vast majority of viruses target systems running Microsoft Windows,employing a variety of mechanisms to infect new hosts,and often using complex anti-detection/stealth strategies to evade antivirus software.
Motives for creating viruses can include seeking profit, desire to send a political message, personal amusement, to demonstrate that a vulnerability exists in software, for sabotage and denial of service, or simply because they wish to explore artificial life and evolutionary algorithms.
Computer viruses currently cause billions of dollars' worth of economic damage each year, due to causing system failure, wasting computer resources, corrupting data, increasing maintenance costs, etc. 
In response, free, open-source antivirus tools have been developed, and an industry of antivirus software has cropped up, selling or freely distributing virus protection to users of various operating systems. 
Even though no currently existing antivirus software is able to uncover all computer viruses (especially new ones), computer security researchers are actively searching for new ways to enable antivirus solutions to more effectively detect emerging viruses, before they have already become widely distributed.
Finding Nemo is a 2003 American computer-animated comedy adventure film produced by Pixar Animation Studios and released by Walt Disney Pictures. 
Written and directed by Andrew Stanton with co-direction by Lee Unkrich, the film stars the voices of Albert Brooks, Ellen DeGeneres, Alexander Gould, and Willem Dafoe. 
It tells the story of the overprotective clownfish named Marlin who, along with a regal tang named Dory, searches for his abducted son Nemo all the way to Sydney Harbour. Along the way, Marlin learns to take risks and comes to terms with Nemo taking care of himself.
Finding Nemo was released on May 30, 2003, and has received universal critical acclaim. 
The film won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature, and was nominated in three more categories, including Best Original Screenplay.
Finding Nemo became the highest-grossing animated film at the time and was the second highest-grossing film of 2003, earning a total of $867 million worldwide by the end of its initial theatrical run.